# Promise concurrency methods

- We have multiple asynchronous tasks that we want to execute in parallel.
- All these methods take iterable of promises as input and returns a single promise.
- When does the returned promises fulfils or rejects and with what values, that depends on the method used.


# Promise.all()

## Why

- We want to wait for multiple asynchronous operations to complete before proceeding.
- We can then aggregate the results and can work with the results collectively.


## What

- The returned promise fulfils when all of the input promises fulfil.
- The promise fulfils with an array of values in the same order as input irrespective of the completion order.
- The promise rejects if any one of the input promises reject with th value of that rejected promise.
- Empty iterable is treated as fulfilled.

``` javascript
Promise.all([asyncTask1(), asyncTask2(), asyncTask3()])
  .then((data) => console.log(data))
  .catch((err) => console.log(err));
```

``` javascript
Promise.all([])
  .then((data) => {
    console.log("THEN::", data); // []
  })
  .catch((error) => {
    console.log("CATCH::", error);
  });
```



# Promise.allSettled()

## Why

- We want to know the status of each and every input promise.

## What

- Returned promise fulfils when all the input promises settle(fulfil or reject).
- The fulfilled values are array of objects that describe status of each input promise.
- Each object has three properties
- `Status` "fulfilled" or "rejected", indicating the eventual state of the promise.
- `value` only present if the promise has fulfilled.
- `reason` only present if status is rejected.
- Empty iterable is treated as fulfilled.



# Promise.any()

- The returned promise fulfils when any of the input promises fulfils.
- The fulfilled value is the value of promise that fulfils first.
- The return promise rejects if all input promises rejects. The value is array of rejected values in the same order.
- Returned promise gets rejected if empty iterable is passed.
- It short-circuits after a promise fulfills, so it does not wait for the other promises to complete once it finds one.


# Promise.race()

- It's useful when you want the first async task to complete, but do not care about its eventual state (i.e. it can either succeed or fail).
- It fulfills if the first promise to settle is fulfilled, and rejects if the first promise to settle is rejected.
- The returned promise remains pending forever if the iterable passed is empty.


