# Promise.all()

## Why

- We want to wait for multiple asynchronous operations to complete before proceeding.
- We can then aggregate the results and can work with the results collectively.


## What

- It is a method that takes iterable of promises as input and returns a single Promise.
- The returned promise fulfils when all of the input promises fulfil.
- The promise fulfils with an array of values in the same order as input irrespective of the completion order.
- The promise rejects if any one of the input promises reject with th value of that rejected promise.
- Empty iterable is treated as fulfilled.

``` javascript
Promise.all([asyncTask1(), asyncTask2(), asyncTask3()])
  .then((data) => console.log(data))
  .catch((err) => console.log(err));
```



# Promise.allSettled()

## Why

- We want to know the status of each and every input promise.

## What

- It is a method that takes iterable of promises as input and returns a single Promise.
- Returned promise fulfils when all the input promises settle(fulfil or reject).
- The fulfilled values are array of objects that describe status of each input promise.
- Each object has three properties
- `Status` "fulfilled" or "rejected", indicating the eventual state of the promise.
- `value` only present if the promise has fulfilled.
- `reason` only present if status is rejected.
- Empty iterable is treated as fulfilled.



# Promise.any()

- It is a method that takes iterable of promises as input and returns a single Promise.
- The returned promise fulfils when any of the input promises fulfils.
- The fulfilled value is the value of promise that fulfils first.
- The return promise rejects if all input promises rejects. The value is array of rejected values in the same order.
- Returned promise gets rejected if empty iterable is passed.
- It short-circuits after a promise fulfills, so it does not wait for the other promises to complete once it finds one.


