## Communication between modules

- Based on single responsibility principle, we have created several modules.
- Now, these modules need to communicate to achieve a functionality.

## 1.Exporting module data

- I have a module whose data I want to access in the main module.
- Firstly, we need to export the data that we want to share with the outside world.
- This is done using the export statement.

### Named exports

- While exporting, we are referring to the items by it's name.
- Same name is used to refer to the items while importing as well.

``` javascript
export const name = "square";

export function draw(ctx, length, x, y, color) {
  ctx.fillStyle = color;
  ctx.fillRect(x, y, length, length);

  return { length, x, y, color };
}
```

- The easiest way to use it is to place it in front of any items you want exported out of the module.
- We can export functions, let, var, const and classes.
- They need to be top level items. We cannot use export inside a method.

``` javascript
export { name, draw, reportArea, reportPerimeter };
```

- Instead of prefixing our data with export at multiple places, we can use the single export statement at the bottom of our file.

### Default exports

We can write the export default statement at the end of the file. Note the lack of curly braces.
``` javascript
export default randomSquare;
```

Or, we can prefix the items we want to export with export default.
``` javascript
export default function (ctx) {
  // …
}
```

This is how we import default exports. Note the lack of curly braces.
```javascript
import randomSquare from "./modules/square.js";
```

- There is only one default export allowed per module.
- While importing a default exported item, name doesn't need to be the same.



## 2.Importing module data

- Once, we have exported some data from a module, we nned to import that data to use it.
- After importing, we can use the features like they are defined on the same file.
- The imported values are readonly. Like const, we cannot reassign the imported values but can modify the object properties.

Named import
``` javascript
import { name, draw, reportArea, reportPerimeter } from "./modules/square.js";
```

- I want to borrow from a mentioned file, these all mentioned features.

Default import
``` javascript
import randomSquare from "./modules/square.js";
```

## 3. Applying the module to your HTML

- This is very similar to how we apply regular scripts to our HTML page.
- Only difference is that we need to add `type="module"`.
- We can only use `import` and `export` statements inside modules not regular scripts.
- You should generally define all your modules in separate files.
- Modules declared inline in HTML can only import other modules, but anything they export will not be accessible by other modules (because they don't have a URL).

``` html
<script type="module" src="main.js"></script>
```

``` html
<script type="module">
  /* JavaScript module code here */
</script>
```

### Other differences between modules and classic scripts

- Modules cannot be served by local file system. They need to be served through a server. Else they will give CORS error if run via local path.
- Modules uses `strict` mode automatically.
- There is no need to use the defer attribute (see <script> attributes) when loading a module script; modules are deferred automatically.
- Modules are only executed once, even if they have been referenced in multiple <script> tags.
- Module-defined variables are scoped to the module unless explicitly attached to the global object. On the other hand, globally-defined variables are available within the module. 


## Avoiding naming conflicts

- We have different modules in which we have variables and functions with same names.
- Module A and Module B both have mehods which have same names.
- Now, when we import these modules into a main module, it can lead to confusion and errors.

``` javascript
import { name, draw, reportArea, reportPerimeter } from "./modules/square.js";
import { name, draw, reportArea, reportPerimeter } from "./modules/circle.js";
import { name, draw, reportArea, reportPerimeter } from "./modules/triangle.js";
```

## Renaming imports and exports

- We can use the `as` keyword to rename our imports and exports inside a curly brackets.

Changing exports

``` javascript
// inside module.js
export { function1 as newFunctionName, function2 as anotherNewFunctionName };

// inside main.js
import { newFunctionName, anotherNewFunctionName } from "./modules/module.js";
```

Changing imports

``` javascript
// inside module.js
export { function1, function2 };

// inside main.js
import { function1 as newFunctionName, function2 as anotherNewFunctionName } from "./modules/module.js";
```


## Creating a module object

- The above method works OK, but it's a little messy and long-winded.
- Everything that a file exports can be imported and grouped as one object.
- All exported data will become properties of this object.

``` javascript
import * as Canvas from "./modules/canvas.js";

import * as Square from "./modules/square.js";
import * as Circle from "./modules/circle.js";
import * as Triangle from "./modules/triangle.js";

const square1 = Square.draw(myCanvas.ctx, 50, 50, 100, "blue");
Square.reportArea(square1.length, reportList);
Square.reportPerimeter(square1.length, reportList);
```

## Dynamic module loading

- We can dynamically load modules when needed.
- Whenever we write import statements, browser will download the dependency files.
- Eager loading everything will have performance issues as we are loading everything upfront.
- Better approach is to keep the initial bundle minimal and then download resources when needed.
- We use an import function which takes path as an argument and return a promise.
- The promise fulfils with a module object.

``` javascript
import("./modules/myModule.js").then((module) => {
  // Do something with the module.
});
```

## Import declarations are hoisted

- Import statements are hoisted.
- Imported data is available in the module's memory, even before the module starts executing.

``` javascript
// …
const myCanvas = new Canvas("myCanvas", document.body, 480, 320);
myCanvas.create();
import { Canvas } from "./modules/canvas.js";
myCanvas.createReportList();
// 
```

## Loading non-JavaScript resources

- We can import non JS resources like JSON and CSS using modules.
- We must explicitly declare what kind of resource you are importing. By default it is assumed that we are importing JS resource.
- We define the type using `with` and `type`

``` javascript
import colors from "./colors.json" with { type: "json" };
import styles from "./styles.css" with { type: "css" };
```

