# Execution context

## Why 

- JS engine uses execution context to execute JavaScript source code.
- It provides the environment in which the code is executed.
- Code is always executed in an environment called execution context.

## Use cases of execution context

####  1. Manages Scope and Variable Access.

- The execution context ensures that variables, functions, and objects are accessible where they are supposed to be.

#### 2. Manages the "this" Keyword

- The execution context defines the value of this within a function.

#### 3. Controls Code Execution Flow

- Whenever a function is invoked, a new execution context is created and pushe don top of the calls tack.

#### 4. Facilitates Lexical Environment and Closure

#### 5. Supports hoisting


## Types of Execution Contexts

### Global Execution Context

- Created when JS engine starts executing our code.

### Function Execution Context

- Created each time a function is invoked.


## Phases of execution context

### 1. Creation phase

- Happens before code is executed.
- Global object creation for global execution context. For browsers this is the `window` object.
- `this` binding. In global execution `this` refers to the `window`.
- `arguments` initialization for function execution context.
- Scope creation including Lexical environment creation and variable environment.
- Hoisting

### 2. Code execution phase

- Actual code execution happens here.
- Assign values, invoke functions etc.
- This means to execute code, we first need to follow the steps involved in the creation phase.
