# Scope

- Scope means what all data (objects, variables, functions) can we access.
- Scope consists of local scope(Variable environment) and outer scope(Lexical environment).

## Variable environment or Local scope

- Each execution context(including the global) has a variable environment.
- All the local data(objects, variables, parameters, functions) created inside an execution context is part of variable environment.

## Lexical environment

- Lexical means where something is written.
- The scope is determined just by looking at where the function is written and not where it is invoked at.
- Every execution context has access to it's variable environment plus it's lexical parent's scope.

## Scope chain

- Each execution context has access to it's local scope as well as it's outer lexical scope.
- Scope chain gives us access to our lexical parent's scope.
- Whenever we try to access a variable inside an execution context, it is first searched in it's variable environment.
- If not found, then it goes to it's lexical parent and searches for the value.
- It keeps going up the scope chain untill we encounter global object which is window for browsers.
- And then if it still can't find, it throws a reference error.

## Example

``` javascript

function sayMyName() {
  var a = 'a';
  return function findName() {
    var b = 'b';
    console.log(a, b);
    return function printName() {
      var c = 'c';
      console.log(a, b, c);
      return 'Andrei Neagoie'
    }
  }
}

```

### Explanation

- When we nest functions like this, we create a lexical relationship. `printName` has `findName` as it's lexical parent and `findName` has `sayMyName` as it's lexical parent.
- So, because of scope chains, `printName` can access it's local scope and it's lexical parent's scope which is `findName`.
- The chain does not stop here, but goes all the way to the window object.
- That means variable is first searched in `printName` local scope, the `findName` then `sayMyName` and the `window`.
