# Hoisting

- Happens during creation phase of execution context before the code execution.
- Memory allocation happens for the variables and functions during creation phase even before the code starts executing.
- JS engine skims through our code and decides that we will need memory for these variables and functions so it allocates memory even before code execution starts.
- During the execution phase, we are just assigning values to variables that are already preset in the memory, or invoke functions which are already there in the memory.
- As a result, we are able to access variables and functions even before declaring them because they are already there in the memory.
- Variables are partially hoisted. We allocate them the memory but do not assign a value. They are asigned `undefined`.
- Function declarations are fully hoisted but function expressions are not.

## Avoiding Hoisting

- Hoisting can be confusing. We must attempt to write predictable and clean code. So we should avoid using hoisting wherever we can by using let and const keywords instead of var.
- With let and const we cannot access a variable before initialization as it gives an error.

## Exercises

## Exercise - 1

```javascript

var one = 1;
var one = 2;

console.log(one);

```
### Explanation

The answer would be 2. Before code execution we allocate memory to variable one and assign a value of `undefined`. During execution, the value of memory is updated to 1 and then 2.


## Exercise - 2

```javascript

a();

function a() {
  console.log("Hi");
}

function a() {
  console.log("Bye");
}

```
### Explanation

The answer would be bye. Since, JS is synchronous first it allocates memory for the first function and a refers to that location. Then it encounters another function, the memory location will be updated. 


## Exercise - 3

```javascript

var favouriteFood = "grapes";

var foodThoughts = function () {
  console.log(`Original favourite food: ${favouriteFood}`);

  var favouriteFood = "Sushi";

  console.log(`New Favorite Food: ${favouriteFood}`);
};

foodThoughts();

// undefined and Sushi

```
### Explanation

Whenever a function is invoked, a new execution context is created. It follows all the steps of creation phase. Before function code starts executing, we allocate memory to variables and functions inside of a function.
So, favourite food gets stored innmemory with a value of `undefined`.
Also, a function would first search variables and functions in it's own scope. So the value will be undefined. Later the value gets updated to Sushi.

