# Prototypal inheritence

- Constructor functions like Array, Object, Function, String, Number, Boolean help us create objects.
- We want all the instances created to have access to some shared utility methods.
- We can define utilities on ConstructorFunction.prototype = utils;
- When we create an object, JS engine will give us access to this prototype using a hidden keyword __ proto __. It refers to the prototype defibed on constructor function.
- When we create an instance, on instance we do not have the utility methods but we have a __ proto __ which refers to the prototype.
- When we define properties using this keyword in constructor functions, it gets added on the instance not on constructor function. 
- This is how we get access to utility methods.
- Also, these utilities are avilable at one place in memory and every instance gets a reference to same memory location. We are bieng efficient as we are not creating memory for every instance.

## Prototype chain

- When we create a type for instance an array, __ proto __ will refer to Array.prototype which is a shared object with all the utilities.
- This object will also have a __ proto __ which will refer to Oject.prototype which is another shared object. This object's __ proto __ will be null which marks the end of prototype chain.
- That is why we say, everything is JS is an object.
- So, every property or method on an object is first searched in its own scope, then shared scope, then shared scope of its parent and son on.


## key in vs hasOwnProperty

- When we use key in operator, it checks object first then its proptotype and so on.
- When we use hasOwnProperty only object is checked for properties and methods.

## How to do inheritence

- We should never use __ proto __. It's bad for performance. So, how do we do inheritence with objects.
- Object.create(parent)
