# Inheritence

- Inheritence allows a class or object to derive properties and methods from another class or object.
- So, we have a piece of code that multiple classes want.
- We write that piece of code only once in a parent class and then make it available to whoever needs it.

## Code duplication

- Without inheritence, we will have to define utilities in every instance that we create.
- When we need to refactor some code, we will have to do it in multiple places. There is no single source of truth.
- So, we have a single source of truth and tomorrow if we want to refactor a piece of code, we have to do it at one place only.


## Memory

- Instead of adding the common methods to all the instances, we can add the methods once in a base class and all subclasses will have access to it.
- Imagine if all arrays we create have their own utility methods like `map`, `filter`, `reduce` etc.
- That will be very inefficient for memory.

## Inheritence in JavaScript

- In JavaScript inheritence is done with objects and prototypes.
- All the shared utilities we put them in an object and make them available to other objects using prototypes and prototype chains.
- JS does not have classes or class based inheritence. Classes are just a syntactic sugar to make the inheritence look simpler.

With classes

``` javascript
class Person {
  talk() {
    return `talking`;
  }
}
```

Is equivalent to 

``` javascript
function Person() {}

Person.prototype.talk = function () {
  return `talking`;
};
```

- Classes are converted to constructor functions.
- Every method we have defined in the class is added to constructor function's prototype.
