# Programming languages classification

- There are a lot of programming languages. A way to classify them would be strong vs weak or static vs dynamically typed.
- JS is weak and dynamically typed.

## Static vs dynamically typed languages

- The key difference is when and how the type of a variable is determined.


## 1. When Type Checking Occurs

- In staticaly typed languages, we explicitly define types of our variables while declaring them.
- So, type checking happens during compilation.
- Our code is self documented, more readable, type safe and less error prone.
- We can catch type related errors during compilation phase.
- If you try to assign a different type to a variable (e.g., a string to an integer variable), the compiler will throw an error before the program can even run.

## 2. When Type Checking Occurs

- Since the types are known at compile time, the compiler can optimize the generated code for performance.
- This often makes statically typed languages faster because the runtime doesn’t have to check types while executing the program.



## Weakly typed vs strongly typed

- How strictly types are enforced in a programming language.
- In strongly typed languages, types are strictly enforced. You cannot perform operations between incompatible types like adding string to a number will give an error.
- In weakly typed languagees, type conversion happens allowing operations between different types.

## Typescript

- JS is the language of the web.
- But it is dynamically typed and weakly typed language.
- How can we bring types to JS.
